Hello and welcome back to the course on blog.
And today we're going to have a visual demonstration of how watchings work.
So in order to form along with a tutorial you need to go to Tools Daut super size dot com slash block
chain slash lock.
So this year all you'll be able to find all of the tools are going to be using today.
And right away there's a copyright notice here.
I just wanted to say a huge thank you to Andrew Anders Brown were for making these cards available.
You can if you like them you can also include them on your own websites.
Here's the license agreement.
All right.
So this we've already seen hash.
So if you put in any information here you'll see that this is Chateau-Renaud 56 hash which is calculated.
Now here is a block and as we discussed got the block number of the Nolens the data and the hash.
We don't have the previous hash here because this is just block by itself.
And here you can see how the block works.
So you put in any number we can this this one.
This illustrates the mining process.
So for instance let me just put in some value here Cairo sense a lot 900 coins.
OK.
And so you can see that right away it becomes red because it doesn't have a valid hash.
So what are we going to do now is we're into mindless blocks.
If you click here.
There we go.
So you can see that the non-Scots updated and the hash got updated and the block number and the data
did not change.
So that's and you can see the leading zeros here that indicates that it has passed a certain target
difficulty.
As we discussed it's small is less than a certain number.
That's exactly what we talked about in the mining trial.
So if you change anything here so if you say it not 900 which is say nine hundred and one right away
the hash is absolutely different and you need to mine this block again.
And there you go.
Right away there's a nons 20 1405 gives a good hash.
So go ahead and play around with this and you can just see how this whole Mai-Ling concept works.
All right so now we're going to move on to block chain and here you actually have a chain of these blocks
probably a chain where we have five blocks in it.
And this time as you can see the new field has been included the previous hash hash of the previous
block.
And as you can see they are all cryptographically linked together and moreover each one of the blocks
has a valid hash.
It says below that sort of number so it starts with the four leading zeros.
And so let's have a look at what happens if we try to attack this block chain.
So for instance if we try to change the value let's say in this block.
So for example let's say we want to actually let's say to start off we're going to add some data right.
So we're going to say hello.
Let's say I bought a house and we'll say
let's.
I don't know.
How are you.
Say my wallet number is X.
And
fifty three for just some random information and then we'll just make the vulture invalid by mining
all of these blocks so we have something to start with.
Right.
So that's second.
Sometimes they take longer because the hash might be further away.
So let's try that more one more time.
There we go again.
That's all of that.
And so now if we try to.
So this is a block chain and it's immutable it's secure.
What happens if we try to change something.
So if I try to change something in this block today.
Right.
How are you today.
You can see what happens right away.
So you can see that the previous hash doesn't change it's the same but the hash of the current block
changes.
And then what's so the interesting thing about this implementation that Anders has suggested is that
here instantly the next to this is the changes.
And this also changes and like this is an assumption that once you attack this block then you recalculate
the hash here and you recalculate the hash.
If you don't mind the blocks but we see as we put in this value the the hash is automatically recalculated
and then so basically all these hashes automatically recalculate.
That's doesn't have to necessarily be the case in a block chain.
What could happen is just this Hosh this previous hash would just be different and it would not match
up with this hash.
And that's where the link would be broken.
So this would still be green.
But inevitably you would still need to fix this.
Remind this remind this and that this will become red and you need to remind this.
So I just wanted to point that out that this is just a specific implementation where you can see that
the hashes are recalculate automatically so as I start typing in here you can see this hash is recalculated
this hash all the hashes of the future blocks recalled automatically.
That's just the specifics of this implementation.
In a normal block chain what would happen is this hash is recalculate.
And that would just not match up with this hash.
And then this hash would not match up with hash was still not up but once you recalculate remind this
block and then remind this block then these two would not match up.
So that's just something to keep in mind.
That's how it works.
But there are as you can see once you try to change something here everything in the future breaks.
OK and now we're moving on to distributed.
And here we have the same block chain but it is with separate peer's so puree has a copy of B has a
copy Pearcey has the copy as is here which is going to have a look at what we discussed in that peer
to peer distributed peer to peer network tutorial where if we put in some value here not only does the
hacker have to now remind this block and then this block and then this block but also the block chain
is secure because this will no longer match up as we will see just give it a second it's still it's
still processing it's probably going to have like a big number here.
There we go.
So now it will no longer match up.
So if you look at the hash over here you can see it starts with four zeros and then F A D.
And here it's different.
E-4 be.
And here it's forty nine.
So we know right away that because the majority of blogs have the same hash for Benard something is
wrong in this block chain.
That's what we talked about in the peer to peer distribution network tutorial that it's much harder
to attack a blotching that's distributed because not only do you have to recalculate all of these you
have to also attack all of these blocks at the same time and all of these blocks at the same time before
they're able to update this.
And the more you have net peers in the network the harder it is.
And finally moving on to tokens This is the same thing.
But here we have transactions so it just illustrates the concept even further that you have the block
chain that is distributed across three peers.
And then if you try to change like even one to one $1 from ninety seven dollars thirteen to ninety eight
dollars.
So you can see right away these become invalid.
You have to mine the block again you have to mine the block again and then right away you can tell just
by looking at the hash starts six five a and this one is different this is be a zero.
And here you have a zero.
So you can see right away that this is the correct copy of the block chain.
Yes.
And this is the incorrect copy.
This is something is wrong here you can.
You don't even need to compare all of the values and look for this one fraudulent transaction.
You can just say right away.
All right.
So that's that's how tokens work.
That's how basically the block chain works with money.
We're going to look at this one as well.
Even though we haven't discussed it yet this is something that we'll talk about in module 2 but nevertheless
this will be helpful.
In the future.
So Coinbase is the trans is where actually the money originates.
For instance Bitcoins once a block is mind that is the Coinbase at the top of every block in Bitcoin
you'll see that that's how much money the miner got.
And so this will allow money to actually be injected into the blogs and into the system where does it
come from in the first place come come from thin air.
And so you see the monies coming into the system through Coinbase and then the transactions are happening
then the money's been distributed again.
Is this just another type of transaction that's included here the rest of the principles are exactly
the same.
Again that will be useful in part 2 in module 2 of course.
So there you go that's the block chain demo.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
Have a player on refrig and it's tools that tools does that create a assigns that the watching slash.
Whichever one you want to start with the easiest one is probably block because it's shorter to type.
And on that note thank you so much for being here today.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then in your book chains.